This directory contains text, color information, and images to be used in
writing topics and making screen shots for the User Guide. This file lists
copyright and license information for these files.

The files in this directory have various attributions and copyrights, as noted
below. Files that are listed as "CC BY SA 2.0" can be used in accordance with
the Creative Commons License, Attribution-ShareAlike 2.0 (CC BY-SA 2.0) -- see
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/. All other files are in the
public domain.


COPYRIGHTS

The text in the text.txt file and the colors in the colors.txt file are placed
in the public domain and may be used without attribution.

If you use all or part of any of the images, include the following attribution
information (shown in AsciiDoc format):


honey_bee.jpg

The honey bee image is a public domain image by
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/en:User:Severnjc[John Severns] at the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/en:[English Wikipedia project] via
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:European_honey_bee_extracts_nectar.jpg[wikimedia
Commons].


farm.jpg

The farm image is a public domain image by Xianmin Chang via
https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Bere%26ModernBarley.jpg[Wikimedia Commons].


salad.jpg

The salad image is a public domain image by http://www.goodfreephotos.com[Yinan
Chen] via https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Gfp-salad.jpg[Wikimedia
Commons]


carrots.jpg

The carrot image is public domain image
https://www.ars.usda.gov/is/graphics/photos/nov04/K11611-1.htm[K11611-1] by
Stephen Ausmus of the
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agricultural_Research_Service[Agricultural
Research Service of the United States Department of Agriculture]
via https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Carrots_of_many_colors.jpg[Wikimedia
Commons]


AnytownFarmersMarket.png

The Anytown Farmers Market logo image is a CC BY-SA 2.0 licensed illustration by
Justin Harrell of https://drupalize.me/[Drupalize.Me].


coverimage.svg

This is the vector graphics source file for the User Guide cover image (the PNG
version of this image is included in the User Guide). The image is a CC BY-SA
2.0 licensed illustration by https://www.drupal.org/u/mndonx[Amanda Luker] at
http://advomatic.com/[Advomatic]. It includes the Drupal wordmark logo and
Druplicon logo, which are
https://www.drupal.org/about/media-kit/logos[registered trademarks of Dries Buytaert]).
It also uses a background from the free version of the
http://www.dafont.com/peoni-patterns.font[Peoni Patterns font] by
http://www.emilylimedesign.etsy.com/[Emily Lime Design]. Text is rendered using
the http://www.fontsquirrel.com/fonts/montserrat[Montserrat font], which is
licensed under the http://scripts.sil.org/OFL[SIL Open Font License v1.10].
